In the last video we found out more about what this content resolver is.
So back to our code now we're going to use this application applications content resolver.
As I said this is just a single instance of the content resolver and it's responsible for resolving
all requests for content by directing the requests to the appropriate content provider in our code and
here on line 25 where we call content resolved or query the content resolver extracts the authority
from the Uruguay and uses that to decide which content provider it should send or the query request
to.
It then gets a cursor back from that content provider and returns the cursor to our calling code.
All right so we're going to get a bit more code now and we're going to store the contacts in a list.
So stop doing that.
So below the line now work we've got a deck so we're going to add some more code so we're going to do
first is at a new line and we're going to put out contacts is equal to a realist then we're going to
use the domino operate out a string of top string we get it back.
Or at least what's going to be in the right list and parentheses on the end.
And just a note there.
That's basically going to be create a list of contacts.
All right.
Then on the next I'm going to curse the question how to use that or not.
Kelly Brice's it was a note here.
Through the case of
the side within the block itself this time we're going to use while parentheses we can use it this time
correctly so it got moved to next closing parentheses.
And if I look again there would be contex which is our right list dot add parentheses.
Art history that in parentheses again have put ita dot net column index parentheses again.
Contex contract doc contex there's going to be dot display and it's called analytical problem.
We've got three closing Raupp parentheses in the long run.
So we are storing the context in a list which I've called contex and we're adding a contact to the list
and we'll use that list shortly as the data for an adapter.
Now we can't guarantee that we'll get any data back.
So we use a site called operad to be for the use function.
That's a question mark.
Now the code to use and the while loop use the same approach that we've used in our earlier example
using a cursor is the same even without getting the data back.
For our content resolver and content provider.
So the last thing we need to do now with this card to read the data is to create an adapter for the
list view.
So let's go ahead and do that.
I mean to put that immediately below the line but to finish topic.
So we're going to talk about adapter is equal to you know top right up to then Darman upright a string
in the middle of that the top string in parentheses.
This comma top line out dot content is Gordito comma and are taught ID nine comma in contex being our
right list and an expert contact.
It's called Nimes dot adapter because by the way if you are asked to select the import for contact I
just call names choose a synthetic import that's Kotla next an android synthetic main content and it's
called My Darkstar.
You can see in my case there because I've got what i reports on.
It's found that while prices had automatically for us are also maybe on by the way we've seen this before
in the top 10 down letter it for the right adapter.
All right so at this point the code is completed almost.
What we still need to do without is permissions.
So Google changed the way permissions work with Android marshmallow.
So what has been a bit of time discussing that now we should really fully shelf what we're doing with
these content resolvers and content providers first.
So what I'm going to do is run this on an android lollipop.
The IP 21 will be Lydda so that we can see it working.
But then in the next video we're going to spend some time looking at permissions.
Whichever version of Android we use we still need to request the permissions and the Android manifest
at least for the app.
So let's go ahead and do that.
You know I put the project on the left open at manifest.
So the permission we want here is read I was called context let's go ahead and do that.
So we're going to come down here above the application tech and we'll create a will add rather a user's
permission tag here.
He can say that and what it is hopefully helping or delivering for us and what we want.
As I mentioned read the school context have to specify that pressing enter.
So there's no chance to be accidentally mis topping that they're going to close off the tags This is
what they use the permission now set up for reading contacts to find you know Android benefits.
So once you've done this now the app should work on any version of Android before IPO 23.
So let's run it on the IPO 21 device that we set up a few years ago.
So this is the one here that I set up 21 contextless one that
I want to see Apple's running which it is now we should be able to attempt to flighting action button
and say the context despite in the last few.
Just remember to choose the emulator that you've added the context to the early video.
Otherwise of course you won't be able to have any contact records to display.
So then click on the send button and you can say we've got two records showing there and if we had enough
records we could scroll through them as you see us to with a list few daily reps.
In fact now we know it's working.
You could run it on your phone and just see all your contacts appear in the list.
All right but at this point that's working fine.
And that's how we can use data using a content provider.
Obviously this is a very basic application but it does give you the concepts of a content provider and
also using a content resolver.
In this case we were able to access the contacts built into the fine and she can say go back to the
code
the actual code to query the data is very similar to what we had when we accessed the database directly.
So using a content provider doesn't really introduce any more complexity into our code beyond having
to obtain the content to score your high from the content provider class so that we can pass that to
the content resolver we queried the content resolver and that passes the query onto the content provider
the content provider and fetches the data from its data source or in the case of an update writes the
data to the data source and either returns a cursor to the content resolver or reports back how many
records were updated.
There's a direct mapping method from the content resolver to the content provider.
For example what we call the result was query method that has to call a query method in the provider
and the same applies to inserts and updates every method we call the resolver has a corresponding method
that resolver calls in the provider and we'll see that in more detail when we come to create our own
content provider.
And in the next step will do just that and will look at creating our own content provider to provide
access to our apps database.
So this is more complex than just using the database directly but it does mean that other apps will
also be able to access the data in the same way as we've just done with the phone's contacts data.
And it also frees us from having to cater for things like the activity lifecycle we're not accessing
the database directly and don't have to worry about opening and closing the content resolve as objects.
Global doesn't get destroyed when an activity does.
Of course we still have to program our activity to handle its lifecycle events.
If I retype the emulator the list is cleared.
Going back to the emulator so I can see if I rotate the device.
The list view is cleared and we have to click on the button to bring the data back again.
So that does result in the query getting executed again and surprisingly then we'll be seeing how a
load can be used to prevent that type.
The point I want to make about the life cycle is that we don't have to concern ourselves with coordinating
the data access with the activity lifecycle the content resolver and content provider handle that for
us.
If we query the database using a curse Alerta We also don't have to worry about creating background
threads and we'll be saying how to do that in the next section.
But coming up in the next video we could look at the changes that Google made to permissions in IPR
23 and had to get this app working with Android Marshman I would above.
In the next video.